What does it take to be able to read text from a file?
Well, it's, in fact, a very simple process, very simple pattern indeed.
First, you create a BufferedReader.
A BufferedReader is a reader.
It's an extension of the Reader class.
And then, through this BufferedReader,
you are going to read your file line by line.
Let us see the pattern. First, you need a path, so let us create one.
Then, you need to get BufferedReader from this corresponding file. And then,
you are going to read the content of that file line by life.
And that's basically it.
It suggested two lines of code pattern.
The life of Java developers would be wonderful if we
did not have to deal with errors, right?
So what could possibly go wrong in the previous code?
Well, in fact, there are many things that could go wrong,
unfortunately. So let us see one of the weirdest things that could happen.
It has to do with the charset you are using. By default, this pattern
assumes that the file you're reading is encoded in UTF‑8.
If that's not the case, you are going to have this kind of exception.
So if you see that exception,
it means that the charset you need is not the default charset. You
need to pass an explicit charset as a parameter.
Thankfully, the JDK got you covered on this one.
The JDK knows a lot of charsets that you can invoke
through the use of constants.
Here in this example, it's the ISO_8859 that is going to solve our problem.
So if you see this weird exception,
it means that the charset is not the right one. You need to find the right one to fix your exception.